# US EPA State Data Services 

[View Feb 2024 State Models Report](https://cfpub.epa.gov/si/si_public_record_Report.cfm?dirEntryId=360453&Lab=CESER) regarding new data files for v1.0 of the USEEIO State Models. 

The report includes [Excel versions of 2020 models](http://doi.org/10.23719/1530076) for all states.
 
The 2020 state data resides in the [Open Footprint](/OpenFootprint/) "[impacts/2020](/OpenFootprint/impacts/2020)" folder. Generated by running [dumpjson](../) 

TO DO: Create interactive version of the supporting figures [including maps of the U.S.](https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.c.7041473) showing environmental pressure intensity grouped by indicator and commodity for all states and rankings of sectors by consumption by environmental pressure for 2020.

The JSON API that drives our [industry comparisons](/localsite/info/) uses EPA data prepared and presented using useeior (R Language),  [useeio.js](/useeio.js/footprint) and the [useeio-widgets](/io/charts/) (Javascript and HTML using the USEEIO-API).

Wes wrote: As a reminder (and mentioned in the report) we’re working on Consumption-based GHG inventories (CBEI) for Maine and other Northeast states as an application of these models but the functionalities we develop and describe will be available for all States. We anticipate that being completed by early summer. 

Wesley W. Ingwersen, Ph.D.
Center for Environmental Solutions and Emergency Response (CESER)
Office of Research and Development
US Environmental Protection Agency

### State Models Report

[The 2024 State Models Report map JPEG images](https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.c.7041473) document the following factors for indicating environmental pressure intensity.

All the maps of per dollar produced in a year by a state are derived using the N matrix values from the respective state model for the state commodity and state location and (e.g. 23/US-GA).  Other figures might be derived from calculations with model matrices.

**The N matrix** containing **direct and indirect impact coefficients** for different commodities for duplicating the report. These coefficients capture environmental pressure activities like emission and resource use associated with both direct and indirect activities. N matrix gives us the direct and indirect impact coeff for all 411 sectors, whose API we can use to rank environmental pressure intensity per state. As N matrix uses equivalency/$ as its value unit, it will be useful for calculation of total environmental impact attributed to each sector. 

**Make Matrix (V)** -  contains the total production or output of commodities by industry (sector) in each state (useful for associating production activities with environmental pressures).  

**Use Matrix (U)** -  shows how much of each commodity is consumed by different sectors. Useful as it links consumption patterns to environmental indicators.  

**The U\_d (domestic use) matrix** is a subset of the Use matrix (U). It outlines domestic consumption patterns which could be key for calculating within-state environmental pressures from production/consumption.  

**L (total requirements matrix)** to model direct and indirect environmental impacts.  

**"flows" matrix**, to link economic activities to environmental pressures.  

**"final\_demand\_meta" matrix** to indicate consumption-based environmental pressure.  

**A (Direct Requirements)** for calculating direct environmental pressure intensities.  

The US EPA provides [USEEIO-State R code](https://github.com/usepa/USEEIO-State) related to these figures to help make the calculation procedures consistent.

Send specific questions to USEEIO@epa.gov
<br>

---

[Participate through DemocracyLab](https://www.democracylab.org/projects/834) - [Contact our Team](/io/team/) - [International Trade Flow](/OpenFootprint/trade/)
<br>

